It only seems fitting that my first blog post would be about how I got started as a software engineer. After all, every hero (or nerd) needs an origin story. It all started when I was 5 years old….
Okay just kidding, little five year old me hardly even knew what a computer was. That being said, 15 year old me hardly knew what a computer was either. Truth is, technology courses were pretty scarce at my high school. There was an IT program at the vocational school (vo-tech), but going to vo-tech was kind of discouraged for high school students on the accelerated academic track. Looking back, I see that was completely stupid, but back then I allowed myself to be influenced. And because of that, my interest in computers laid dormant until college.
In January of 2016, I began my studies. They started at Mansfield University of Pennsylvania as a Business Administration major. Not that I had much of a care in the courses. No, actually I wanted to be a state trooper at the time, but I was told not to major in Criminal Justice so I just picked a mostly random study path.
super troopers picture here
I started classes, and things were going well for the first two months or so. I didn’t have a care in the world for my courses, but I had straight A’s so good enough. And then one night, my roommate and I started talking about how we should start a business. Now, I’m going to level with you. It was a completely stupid business idea that would have never taken off. But, it involved building a website and that was enough to change my life. You see, I didn’t know the first thing about how the internet actually worked or programming or anything really. So I did some googling and found out there was hundreds of website builders I could use. Now, I don’t know if you’ve ever tried to make a website with a builder tool, but it’s laughable how little you can actually do. Maybe it’s sufficient for ma and pop shops, but we were trying to create a whole new social media platform. Some static pages with a little CSS wasn’t going to cut it. 
Needless to say the website never came to fruition. But in the couple weeks I spent trying to learn HTML, CSS, and a little bit of JavaScript, I found a passion I never knew I possessed. Those few weeks were enough to get me to change my major to Computer Science and I never looked back.
Now let’s skip ahead two and a half years. A lot happened to me personally, but maybe I’ll make that into a different post. Bottom line, I was no longer at Mansfield University but I was still studying Computer Science. During those two and a half years I also spent a year at Penn State World Campus before realizing it would take way too long to get my degree. Desperate to graduate in a shortened timeline, I stumbled upon Western Governor’s University (WGU). I don’t know if you are familiar with WGU, but if not, go check it out. Their learning model is so awesome and allows you to learn at your own pace, however fast that may be. Given that ability, I decided that I was going to graduate in my first six month term no matter what. It ended up being the best decision I have ever made.
I had a lot of credits to transfer in, some of which either weren’t accepted or just counted towards general studies. At the end of it, I had still needed to complete 70 credits. This amounted to 20 courses in six month. So in other words, an entire course more or less every week. Admittedly, I felt a bit discouraged when I realized that, but I never gave up on my goal. It took me countless hours and an array of learning mechanisms (which I’ll be writing about in future posts), but I finished my program in about five months and two weeks. Not only that, but my achievement became the ultimate resume booster and helped me to land a job before graduation. 
I have now been working that job as a software engineer for about nine months, and I feel like I never left college. I still approach everyday with the same tenacity to learn and improve. Best of all, its been paying off. I am producing more value in my professional life every day, and I have settled in enough to pursue personal projects every night. 
College brought me from uneducated internet user to full fledged software engineer, but it also taught me the (second) most valuable skill of all: how to learn.
So to wrap this up, I went from uneducated internet user to full fledged software engineer in three years. Part of me wants to keep this train moving, but I’m gonna cut this off here. This blog, like life, is a marathon, not a sprint.